a weird thing about Western society is
the collective acceptance of one of the
most dangerous drugs alcohol me
personally have a passive binge drinking
and I'm happy to say that I drink rarely
these days if not at all for me drinking
was a gateway to loads of fun working as
a social lubricant to deal with
insecurity and anxiety and I think I'm
not the only one with things that way
most people I know drink weekly or even
daily in many cases drinking a few beers
on Friday afternoon has become a
corporate ritual we are so under the
spell of that poisonous substance that
washes away our worries and sorrow and
makes us flee from the one thing we
dread the most our minds I believe that
most of us can name a few downsides of
drinking from personal experience like
those dreadful hangovers and doing stuff
you regret later but what can we say
about drinking from a spiritual
perspective or to be more specific
what did the Buddha say about drinking
alcohol like most religions Buddhism
emphasizes the dangers of intoxication
in Buddhist ancient scriptures called
the suta potaka the Buddha points out
six reasons why we should avoid alcohol
as well as other intoxicants by the way
which I will show you in this video and
I will accompany them with some personal
anecdotes of my history as a [ __ ] to
endure
[Music]
one loss of wealth well I had to think
for a moment what the Buddha could have
meant by this but I think it's very
simple in fact a friend of mine provided
me the answer very recently boozing eats
up your bank account we talked about the
good old times when we went partying and
drinking and we reflected on how much
money we actually spent on alcohol not
only we bought tons of beer and wine at
the supermarkets we spent a fortune on
expensive drinks in cafes and clubs at
some point I think I spent about 500
euros a month on booze alone
another important danger of drinking is
that this can cost you your job
appearing at work with a hangover or
calling in sick because you drank too
much the night before makes you
unreliable and unattractive for your
employer I've learned this the hard way
believe me so if you care about the
contents of your wallet
avoid alcohol to increased quarreling
often times alcohol usage destroys
families and relationships yes I know
that drinking has a bonding effect as
well but there are too much examples of
misery induced by drinking personally I
fought with a lot of people while
intoxicated alcohol lowers my
inhibitions and withers my ability to
restrain my anger I got into fights with
friends ex-girlfriends family members
and complete strangers I mean why do you
think there's so much aggression in
places where people drink because
alcohol makes some people recklessly
aggressive so if you want less fighting
and drama in your life
avoid alcohol three susceptibility to
illness The Hangover is just one facet
of immediate health consequences of
drinking booze alcohol lowers your
immune system and makes you more
susceptible to illness in the country
that I'm from the biggest yearly
celebration is our navall which is a 5
day long drinking festival needless to
say the flu loves carnival and it's no
surprise that many people get sick about
15 percent of the partygoers calls in
sick to work afterwards also there are
many long-term health risks in regards
to
thinking like weight gain liver damage
stomach damage brain damage
like the Korsakoff syndrome fertility
problems and psychosis so if you care
about your health listen to the Buddha
and avoid alcohol for disrepute many
people drink because of social reasons
Buddha advises you not to drink and also
because of social reasons although your
reputation is not entirely in your
control
you can influence it for sure being
drunk all the time is a way to destroy
your reputation or at least create a
reputation that you do not want to have
many years ago I had the reputation of
being the drunken clown and I often made
a mess of the places I visited yes I had
great fun but I did a lot of stupid
things and damaged relationships for
good we often hear from people that they
regret what they did in a drunken stupor
that's why drinking heavily at the
presence of your co-workers or worse
your boss is not a good idea also a lot
of promiscuity is a consequence of
alcohol consumption along with
infidelity cheating brings you in
disrepute aside from the fact that it's
insanely hurtful to the person you have
cheated on
so take the Buddhist advice if you want
to protect your reputation
avoid alcohol five weekend inside a more
spiritual dimension in regards to
drinking and other intoxicants is that
it basically makes you unconscious
alcohol alters your mind and weakens
your ability to think and react properly
recently I heard someone say that the
true nature of a person appears when
that person is drunk I believe that this
is only partly true I would say that the
primal parts of a person comes to the
surface which manifests in more lusts
more aggression and basically more raw
emotion while your awareness and
thinking capacity goes down the drain
this affects your ability to make good
decisions drunk people make a lot of
poor decisions including the amount of
money they spend the people they sleep
with and a person they punch in the face
who happen to be a soccer hooligan
accompanied by his buddies so if you
want to stay clear and focused you might
want to consider to avoid alcohol
six indecent exposure well this point
related strongly to the fourth point
another personal confession of mine is
walking on the streets with my pants
down with my you-know-what for the world
to see I'm happy to say that this has
happened many years ago and I haven't
done that ever since but during the
years I've seen many other people men
and women publicly exposing themselves
in ways they would normally never do
most of the times they regret it also
exposing your body parts often attracts
the wrong people especially as a woman
there are plenty of predators out there
that seek to exploit drunk people who
have lost any decency so if you are
prone to exhibiting your body parts to
the public when drunk avoid alcohol and
that's it thank you for watching
[Music]